PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa’s office has hailed Prospect Lithium Zimbabwe’s corporate social responsibility projects in Goromonzi, Mashonaland East Province. This comes as the company announced last week that it had finished the needs assessment for new community-led projects to be undertaken, building on the work it did last year in education, health, security and infrastructure. Flagship infrastructural programmes and projects director in the Office of the President and Cabinet George Madzimure  said  corporate social responsibility activities were a practical way to change the face of communities. “Corporate social responsibility activities such as those taking place in Goromonzi are a way of giving back to locals by corporates that operate in those communities.  “Those that have done it and are doing so have helped bring about inclusive and sustainable citizen livelihoods in communities. It is my fervent hope that all corporates operating in communities engage in such activities to help improve livelihoods of locals, Madzimure said. Some of the projects that the lithium mining company has so far undertaken include the refurbishment of the 25 km road that links Goromonzi district to the Harare Mutare Highway, donating books and stationary to Vhuta Primary School, among others. On her part, Goromonzi Rural District Council district development coordinator Prisca Dube said the community was impressed by the developments. “Our community is benefiting a lot from this organisation and we are happy as Goromonzi. The work that was done at Vhuta Primary School included the construction of two classroom blocks as well as accommodation for teachers. Such interventions in the education and also health sector in the district are commendable,” she said. This year the company will be focusing on infrastructure development and agriculture, increased company-wide commitments to reduce its environmental footprint, and boost health and education in the communities. It is also set to contribute in supporting the educational needs of underprivileged children, sponsoring sporting disciplines, supporting health and disability centres, agriculture and training of farmers to enable them to enhance household livelihoods among other things. This year’s corporate social responsibility programmes are based on its investment philosophy, “no matter where you invest, you must contribute to the local economy and society.” PLZ began its community-focused initiatives with opening vacancies for locals to be employed at the plant. It also donated school furniture and textbooks to 10 other schools in the area and built a base for the Zimbabwe Republic Police in the area.