BY SYMPATHY SIBANDA GETTING into a New Year takes a little getting used to, how are we doing with those New Year resolutions? One of those should be to have your mental health on fleek by tuning in to the hub of entertainment. Today, through your feedback I will introduce you to one of the producers at 3Ktv. Meet Nyaradzo Mutendera. Q: Tell us more about you? A: I grew up in Marondera and was raised by a single mother after my dad passed away when I was three. I started my primary school in Harare then moved to Marondera when I was in Grade 5. I attended Nagle House Girls School in Marondera which played a major role in my upbringing and values as a young woman hence I can safely say I am a proud product of Nagle House.   Q: You always wanted to be in the media? A: Growing up I always wanted to be a lawyer but unfortunately when I wrote my ‘A’ Levels I did not attain the 15 points that were required for law hence I settled for Media Studies instead. After the first semester I realized that maybe this was what I was meant to study after all considering that my father was a force to reckon with in the media industry. Q: Any hobbies? A: I am a feminist who is very passionate about the empowerment of women and girls. In my spare time I write for my blog and use every opportunity that I get to engage in programmes that empower women and girls in my community. Q: Your qualifications? A: At the moment I hold a BSC honours degree in media and society studies and I am looking forward to furthering my studies Q: Role model? A: My greatest role model is my mother because of all the sacrifices that she made against all odds for me to become the woman that I am today. Q: The pull factor in your job? A: The greatest part of my job that I enjoy is the ability to tell stories from behind the camera, stories that help, educate and empower people from all walks of life. The ability to transform people’s lives from behind the camera or using a pen is Magical. Q: End game? A: My dream is to be a force to reckon with in the media industry, to be a woman who will break barriers in an industry that is believed to be male dominated. I want to be proof to young women out there that it is possible to chase and achieve your goals as a woman. Q: Which shows do you produce? A: I am currently producing Cousins, My Vote, High School Debates, Retro beatz and a line producer for The Diplomatic Couch. Q: What keeps you grounded? A: I come from a Christian background and I am a member of the United Methodist church. I also come from a very supportive family full of love and this has also shaped the person that I am today. Q: Parting words? A: Keep watching the best of Zimbabwe, don’t touch that dial.