POLICE say they will open a probe into allegations of extortion and blackmail that have been levelled against an ex-service-man by one of the investors involved in a multi-million dollar investment in the country. The man, Spencer Muchamiri – has flatly denied trying to extort money from the local representative of Dubai-based company constructing the US$ 500 million Cyber City, Paul Tempter Tungwarara. National police spokesman Paul Nyathi said the law enforcement agents were waiting for the report to be made and would actively pursue investigations once that had happened. “I will check with the CID (Criminal Investigations Department), but if a report has been made definitely we will open investigations and make arrests informed by our probe. “Blackmail and extortion are serious crimes. The law will be applied as long as there is a complainant,” Nyathi said.Muchamiri has been accused of making threats that he was positioned to scupper the Cyber City project unless he was given money by Tungwarara. Muchamiri yesterday admitted to the Daily News that he had  asked for money from Tungwarara but as payment for an “outstanding debt”.He, however, did not reveal why he was pursuing him now. “The truth is that he owes me a lot of money,” Muchamiri said. This comes as the  government last year gave Dubai-based billionaire Shaji Ul Mulk the green light to construct the Cyber City, among several investments he wanted to embark on in the country. Covering 2.5 million square metres of land, the Cyber City project would include 250 townhouses, more than 80 luxury villas, a number of apartment blocks, high-tech office facilities, a 15-storey commercial tower, and landscaped gardens. Meanwhile, garrulous Norton Independent legislator Temba Mliswa, has warned that there would “always be jealous people  ready to derail huge investments driven by locals. “It’s a great project, however, it seems there will always be people who are jealous when they see someone they grew up with in Mbare or Highfields being successful.  “Pulling him down syndrome isn’t good. He (Tungwarara) has done well and we should recognise and accept that,” Mliswa posted on twitter.“Why can’t we stomach the success of one of our own? Tungwarara is one reputable person I have previously worked with at Salt Lakes Holdings. We were also together at the Shamuyarira Farm, effectively turning it around and soon we shall be having a field day there. “Most of these accusers are merely extortionists. They are out for their own ends. I have always taken a position to support black business people,” Mliswa added