TODAY’S generation has grown up in restaurants and fast-food canteens and the tradition of cooking healthy nutritious meals together slowly starts to disappear. Although the fast-food route might seem convenient, it comes at a price. Restaurant meals and fast foods are usually high in saturated fats, salt and artery clogging-cholesterol. But you can spare yourself from all these with smart home cooking habits and recipes. Preparing and eating meals at home is a better choice for many reasons. Several studies have shown that people who cook more often, instead of getting fast food, have an overall healthier diet. Home-cooked meals are usually healthier and taste better because the cook has control over the ingredients in meals prepared than at restaurants.  Learning how to plan healthy meals may save more money on your food budget, allowing you to save money to buy other necessities. Here are a few good recipes to get you started:  NESTLÉ CREMORA Milk Tart Rusks Ingredients ½ Cup NESTLÉ CREMORA ORIGINAL 1/3 Cup Warm Water 1 ½ Cups Cake Flour 2 Teaspoons Ground Cinnamon 2 Teaspoons Baking Powder ½ Teaspoon Salt ½ Cup Light Brown Sugar ½ Cup (115g) Oil 2 Extra Large Eggs Method Frozen Milo Energy Pops Ingredients 9 heaped tablespoons of NESTLÉ MILO 3 Teaspoons Sugar 80ml Hot Water 300ml Cold Water Method NESTLÉ CREMORA Chicken and Broccoli Crustless Quiche Cups Ingredients 2 Cups Rotisserie Chicken 2 Tablespoons Butter 1 cup Mushrooms, sliced 1 cup Steamed Broccoli, finely chopped 2 Spring Onions, Chopped ¾ cup Cheese, grated ½ Cup NESTLÉ CREMORA ORIGINAL 1 ¼ Cup Hot Water 4 Large Eggs ½ Teaspoon salt ½ Teaspoon black pepper Method NESTLÉ CEREVITA Smoothie Ingredients 30g of NESTLÉ CEREVITA 120ml warm milk 1 Banana Method NESTLÉ CREMORA Scones Ingredients 500ml Self – Raising Flour 125ml NESTLÉ CREMORAPowder 50g Butter, cubed 250ml Water 1 Egg, Beaten 250ml Whipped Cream 65ml Jam Method For more delicious and healthier recipes, visit https://recipeswithlove.co.za/recipes and https://www.milo.com.ph/recipes For more information visit www.nestle-esar.com. Follow us on Facebook @Our Nestlé Zimbabwe #NestleGoodToGo ENDS Contact: Nestlé East and Southern African Region (ESAR) Rosalie Ambrose Tel: 079 526 8518 Email: Rosalie.ambrose@za.nestle.com Issued by TotalMedia UM on behalf of Nestlé East and Southern Africa Region Delyse Gimani Tel: +263 78 322 3696 Email: delyseg@totalmedia.co.zw About Nestlé Nestlé is the world’s largest food and beverage company. It is present in 187 countries around the world, and its 291,000 employees are committed to Nestlé’s purpose of unlocking the power of food to enhance quality for everyone, today and for generations to come. Nestlé offers a wide portfolio of products and services for people and their pets throughout their lives. Its more than 2,000 brands range from global icons like Nescafé or Nespresso to local favourites like Ricoffy. Company performance is driven by its Nutrition, Health, and Wellness strategy. Nestlé is based in the Swiss town of Vevey where it was founded more than 150 years ago.