3 KTV’s pulsating News and Current Affairs programme, Vantage, added another silverware to the station’s bountiful cabinet after being named best television programme for 2022. It’s host and Jester Media Services’ Group Editor-in-Chief, Guthrie Munyuki, also bagged major prizes during the awards gala organised by a private organisation. Vantage was in January named 2022’s “Outstanding Television programme” while Munyuki was also adjudged a ‘Distinguished Editor’ for his leadership role at 3Ktv’s iconic sister media operation, the Daily News. The awards were sponsored by Perfection Media, the publishers of ZCN and Masters Magazine, which is chaired by well-known banker and businessman Nigel Chanakira. “Perfection Media Pvt Ltd is de – lighted to honour you with the Zim Community News Distinguished Editor Honorary award. “In addition, your television programme Vantage, which fo – cuses on societal issues, is also the ZCN Outstanding Television programme as it holds a mission alignment with our goals to empower communities through solution-based journalism. “In arriving at that decision, the judges were particularly impressed by your remarkable trailblazing journey that began as a journalist to become the Editor-In-Chief of one of the biggest private media houses in Zimbabwe. “As a social business, our com – munity awards identify honour and acknowledge your passion, commitment and dedication to the social upliftment of our communities,” said Perfection Media’s editorial director, Albert Masaka, in his citation then. Commenting on the awards, Munyuki expressed his delight that 3Ktv and the entire JMS Group — which includes The Financial Gazette, the Daily News, the Daily News On Sunday and Business Live — continued to do exception – ally well despite the keen competition and challenging operating environment. “This is all testament to the hard and diligent work of the group’s staff and leadership. May this long continue. “In the case of Vantage and 3Ktv, I would like to especially pay tribute to my producers for the great work that they do behind the scenes. I share this award with them,” he said. 3Ktv is available both free-to-air and on DStv’s Channel 293. Vantage, which is one 3Ktv’s flagship programmes, airs every Thursday between 8:30 pm and 9pm. The programme began airing in March last year, with the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ ) Governor, John Panonetsa Mangudya, becoming its first ever guest. In that historic programme, which was shot at the RBZ HQ in Harare, Munyuki dwelt on the likely impact on Zimbabwe of the then weeks old war between Russia and Ukraine. Weeks later, the fears came to pass as the war disrupted the global supply chains, triggering price hikes of fertilizers, grain and fuel – all which had a domino effect in the Zimbabwe economy. Since the first show with Mangudya, Vantage has grown to be – come a permanent fixture on the viewing diaries of those who want to be kept up to date with news and current affairs in Zimbabwe