THE media is key in ensuring that the upcoming general elections are held in a peaceful and tranquil environment, Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Minister Monica Mutsvangwa has said. Speaking in Beitbridge at commemorations marking World Radio Day at the weekend, which also coincided with the launch of Lotcha FM — a local community radio station — Mutsvangwa said by carrying messages of peace and unity, the media would positively influence behaviour of the electorate across the board in the run up to the polls. ‘Zimbabwe is heading for a general election expected around mid-year, and the government is leading calls for peace and restraint in campaigning, to avoid inter-party skirmishes by supporters which in the past led to questions about the integrity of the outcome. President Emmerson Mnangagwa is leading the peace crusade from the government, and also his ruling Zanu PF party. “As such we expect radio to preach the message of peace to our citizenry. Let me be very clear to the nation and say that elections are there to choose leaders of the electorate’s choice who will then steer the country forward. “His Excellency President ED Mnangagwa is leading in making the clarion call that there should not be any violence before, during and after elections,” Mutsvangwa said. “As the minister of Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services, I am instructing radio broadcasters to uphold the highest professionalism as they educate and inform the nation on the need to maintain peace and tranquillity,” she said. Her call comes in the wake of a few incidents captured on video of purported politically-motivated violence in some parts of the country, which police are investigating. In the past, however, most of the cases of violence were found to have been feigned by the opposition to draw international sympathy, and prepare the ground to dispute the outcome. “We take cognisance of the fact that radio can mediate between rival groups or races through dissemination of constructive information that unites rather than divide,” Mutsvangwa said. “Radio can encourage dialogue between groups and help find a peaceful way out of misunderstandings and foster development among humankind,” she added. Mutsvangwa said her ministry, and government in general, viewed radio as a key communication tool, in line with the country’s goal of ensuring universal access to information, hence the decision to liberalise the airways. This has seen several independent players entering the broadcast sector, including the television segment, making Zimbabwe one of most diversely served media market. In its quest to ensure an informed citizenry, at least 14 of the newly licenced broadcasting players are community radio stations located in marginalised areas of the country. One of these is Lotcha FM which, officially launching it, Mutsvangwa implored to unite communities around its home region of Beitbridge, and spearhead development for the common good of the area and the nation at large. “In a nutshell, community radios are the “go to sources” of government projects, policies and vision. The community radios will disseminate economic and social information related to improving livelihoods. As radio broadcasters, I encourage you to preach peace, tolerance and reconciliation especially among opposing views,” she said. — New Ziana